you know the world of Comedy premises
was decreasing decreasing getting
Tighter and Tighter because there's just
so many things that you couldn't say or
you'd be attacked and run out of town
you know but uh this is just a real free
and freeing feeling and it's just
wonderful to look out and see people of
all uh shapes colors sizes ages laughing
together at just the ridiculous absurd
of it all it it's just it feels like uh
it feels like Revolution like we've
always dreamed of a revolution for free
thoughts free ideas Free
People hello everybody I got the
opportunity today to talk to Roseanne
Bar um we talked about her recent work
with the daily wire plus crew on Mr
burum she plays a high school principal
near retirement in that show um and then
we talked a fair bit about comedy as
such and exactly what a comedian does
what it's like to hit the mark So
precisely that you can tell the truth in
a manner that also opens people up and
brings that unconscious Joy that's
associ iated with spontaneous La
laughter trying to nail down exactly
what that means it's part of this
broader phenomenon that we see where so
many people that are making their mark
on pop culture are comedians former and
present Rogan of course Springs to mind
B uh Russell Russell Brand many many
people Dave Ruben Steven Crowder uh Theo
vaugh there's so many comedians that
have made a name for for themselves as
as interviewers we we talked about that
a fair bit um her experience with
Council
culture and and class discrimination or
or difficulty in making class adjustment
let's say in Hollywood um her more
recent experiences on the comedy scene
in Austin which is a real upand
cominging comedy Renaissance City uh in
no small part as a consequence of Joe
Rogan's Enterprises there so
join us um for what proved to be a very
interesting and enlightening
conversation let's start by talking
about Mr burum you're working with the
daily wire plus crew yeah and so how's
that
going oh it's just been a blast it's
just been so fun uh I I like their
process I like the people I love Adam
Corolla and the other Comics it it's
just been so fun to uh be part of some
something that
is uh so on the line and purposely
offensive it's just great to offend you
know um and I think for an audience that
uh likes that sort of thing you know
it's it's great accepting and uh for
people who really want to think and
rearrange Furniture in their mind it's
fun to be a part of that the problem
with aring F Furniture in your mind is
the snakes and the spiders tend to crawl
out from underneath isn't that true it's
definitely the case so tell everybody
about Mr burum because there'll be lots
of people watching and listening who
don't know about it uh well uh it's a
30-year dream of Adam Corolla to portray
this character I guess it's uh based on
a real life teacher of his a shop
teacher and uh who was um as I
understand it I hope I'm not misspeaking
it for Adam but uh he was very
influential to Adam and he had a
different approach to
teaching um it was
unconventional and some people would
probably right now he'd you know people
would be up in arms about the way he
taught but he not only taught but
reached people and uh you know um
challenge them to do their best so
that's kind of what is so great about
the cartoon because it shows a teacher
that cares in an unconventional way and
actually move students to think and do
their best work and uh the um and he's
up against like you and I and people who
are thinkers up against this
huge force of uh you know colletive yeah
evil the collective uh you know the
collective that's what I just call it
now um that has uh you know their
fascist uh definitions of every thing
where people must obey must bow must
repeat must parrot and so in all of that
there's this one gifted teacher who
wants to do it his way and he is of
course under scrutiny by all the
collective and uh I play the principal
who's about two weeks from retirement
and doesn't give a damnn just wants to
get the retirement and is trying to do
what she has to do and it's kind of is a
veteran and so she's kind of on Mr
burcham's side but she has to um obey
the prodical and uh this the one
character uh oh my gosh I'm blank on his
name but is played by uh Tyler Fisher
I'm so sorry Tyler but he plays like he
plays car Ponzi car Ponzi yeah and he's
really a lib he's a real like pronoun
type you know guy that is all that and
he's trying to get Mr burum fired you
know using the rules that Mr burum
doesn't follow and so my character is
like trying to protect Mr burum and
trying to protect her retirement so the
the best comedies animated or otherwise
often have a very sharp and biting
satirical Edge but underneath a certain
amount of heart and genuine human
connection this was something that was
very marked about The Simpsons for
example because it was completely
satirical but at least for the 13 first
Seasons there were some Stellar shows
after that too really what made
the series so remarkable was the fact
that you actually ended up identifying
with and liking the characters despite
their manifold flaws do you ever watch
the trailer park boys have you ever seen
that oh yes I love that show it's just
okay so why why do you love the trailer
park because I also love the Trailer
Park Boys which I'm very sad to say but
I'm like a super fan and it has the same
quality right and I mean the characters
are completely reprehensible most of the
time but there's a there there's a con
they have a connection underneath that's
genuine and that gives the show it's not
just it's not just cynical and it is
genuinely funny and so what what is it
you like about the Trailer Park
Boys well I like just that it's
absurdest it's so it's so based in
reality that it's absurd which is like
what reality is right now it's just so
absurd it's hard to write jokes when
you're in the middle of an
you know just abur you because you know
you can hardly top how ridiculous and
absurd everything is um you just maybe
need to just hold up a mirror and that's
what I like about it because I had so
many people in my life who are just like
the Trailer Park Boys um maybe they
don't I think the trailer park boys have
a lot of insight that uh the the people
like that they do have a lot of insight
but uh you know I think that it speaks
greatly to class Consciousness which is
what fascinates me more than anything
else about you know American culture and
the and you know the the uh you know
Canada and the UK and you know I guess
the West the fact that everybody is uh
kind of blind to the fact that we live
in such a class-based culture it's like
the last thing that anybody ever notices
or talks about but it it's just so
present in that show and and uh it's
just so hilarious all the things that
come with that whole working class thing
which I I just love it what one of the
things that always struck me the town I
grew up in the town I'm in right now
because I'm up in Northern Alberta is a
workingclass town and I I suppose
climbed the class ladder after I left
Fairview but one of the things I really
missed as that happened was humor I mean
the people I grew up with here basically
all we did to amuse ourselves was to
engage in competitive bouts of humor and
so and that was ridiculously fun it was
a way of gaining status too because the
funniest people had the most status and
also obviously the people that could
take a joke and in workingclass jobs you
need to be able to take a joke that's
for sure well everyone does all the time
in life but you know among the
intellectual class frequently especially
among the posers there's an absolute
lack of humor and that's very annoying
it's it is absolutely true it's very
dull and um and pretentious and you know
one of the things too that I really
learned I think you can you can tell
people who are dangerous because they
hate Comedians and they hate automob
S I never thought about the automobile
oh yeah yeah yeah it's the same it's the
same so I think it's that private
personal mobility and freedom that you
know I mean car culture was always a
workingclass culture and the thing about
a car is you can go every anywhere you
want whenever you want with no
restrictions or very limited
restrictions and no one can tell you
otherwise plus it's super private or it
was until you had OnStar and all these
bloody things that monitor you 100% of
the time well you're driving now but
like cars to me really signify freedom
and well comedy is the same way because
you get to say whatever you want as long
as it's funny had a good friend of mine
once up in Northern Alberta his rule was
you could say anything you wanted as
long as it was funny or true and funny
and true man that really tops the charts
if you can pull that off that's what my
family too was uh of it was a
dysfunctional family and uh you know
like everybody's I guess everybody has
an element of that but uh we could say
whatever we we couldn't ever we weren't
allowed to say we were angry or that
something was wrong we weren't ever
allowed to whine as it was called but it
we could tell a joke expressing
dissatisfaction or anger or rage or
anything and it would be you know it
would be accepted everybody loved it we
laugh it off and that is like how we
communicated the darker parts of our
psyches you know and it was okay but if
you would tell a joke and it would bomb
in front of my dad then he you know then
you get slapped so I kind of got uh
robotized into being a comedian because
it was right right a way to express and
to survive all of this stuff so you know
I learned it that way but uh it was kind
of like that in all my friend's house
too if you if you were Snappy with your
wit your parents appreciated it even
though they wanted to you know beat the
hell out of you sometimes
didn't yeah well the thing about the
thing about discussing dark things with
humor is that it it has two advantages I
think and the first is you get to shine
a light on the thing that's dark but
more importantly you get to show that
you can stand seeing it and also that
you can sort of you can transcend it at
the same time which is really what
you're doing when you laugh it off so
you're showing that there's something
there that's negative and maybe even
that's causing suffering but at the same
time you're indicating everybody's
willingness to look at it and also to
rise above it and so that's a pretty
damn good deal and this is why I to
dispel its power over us right you know
I always thought that comedy was
uh I mean I I do feel it's a gift and a
lot of us comics on drunk and sitting
there talking to each other
seriously which we do when we're drunk
and drinking and stuff and getting
serious about comedy which we do but
it's probably really boring to non-c
comedians but we talk about what a kind
of a holy thing it is to be uh a
comedian to have the power of
uh naming you know being able name
something and then to
dispel its power over us but more
important than anything the way I look
at it and I always bring it up is to
laugh power to
scorn they cannot right survive that and
so we look at it as like oh it is a holy
calling in a kind of a working class way
of
uh telling the the uh king or the
emperor hey you're naked as hell buddy
yeah well you you there's two things
there you point out that I think you're
really interesting I had never thought
about the that relationship between
comedy and the the power to name so
that's what God grants Adam in the story
of Adam and Eve right he's supposed to
God in fact God brings everything in
front of Adam to see what he'll name
them and it's interesting CU naming
something actually has that real title
alliance with wit it's really hard to
coin a word or a phrase right you have
to hit the target dead center before you
can come up with a new phrase that PE
that will spread that happens very
rarely that's real Mark of precise aim
and so and you're absolutely right
precise aim is so much a part of it yeah
exactly yeah yeah and then then the
scorn issue that's also dead relevant
well I think this is partly why you can
tell the tyrants because of their
attitude towards comedians is that it's
the people who don't want to be unmasked
and especially who don't want to be
unmasked in relationship to the fact
that all their vaunted compassion is
nothing but a play for power they're the
ones that detest Comedians and have
absolutely no sense of humor that's a
very dangerous thing in a person to have
no sense of humor and so what does that
mean if you have no sense of humor well
they have no sense of watching comedy
I've always been a comedy fan and so was
my father he he wanted to be a comic too
and I think he he made me one but uh um
they the the content of the humor they
like because everybody laughs at
something eventually but the content and
politics of the humor they like is
something that I've studied as a comic
for a long time and it is kind of by
class the way I look at it it's very
much by class class and it's also by sex
and uh you know it's also by um you know
a few other factors but uh in my mind
but these uh people they will laugh but
we always say they laugh uh downward
they right they laugh at yeah yeah they
laugh at their quote lesser like less Ed
they're less uh AC AC I always call it
acad dementia they're less demented you
know um you know the Riff ra or whatever
but uh and sometimes they'll laugh
upward and sometimes they'll laugh
laterally but it's very subdued but the
the thing they will never do is laugh at
themselves right right and they really
despise any that puts them as the joke
you know uh I got fired because I uh
made fun of the Obama Administration and
their policies in the Middle East even
though they tried to say it was about
something else but that is what my tweet
was about that got me fired and my work
of a lifetime stolen everything they did
to me and also uh misrepresenting what I
meant and not allowing me the chance to
explain or anything you know just dead
deadheading me but uh he is he and those
leftists around him leftists don't have
a sense of humor at all but uh they
definitely don't want to be made fun of
at all and they resent it they get so
angry because you know the one thing I
always say about fascists two things
they despise dialogue and humor you know
conversation and actual dialogue about
an idea they despise that and any kind
of of humor that includes any discussion
of class or that kind of thing you know
and uh well it might maybe it's maybe
it's harder on the Democrats to have
workingclass humorists go after them
because in principle they're supposed to
be advocates for the working class and
so if it's working class humor which
which does tend in my experience to be
very self-denigrating right and I do
think that's a real Mark of character
it's one of the things I really like
about British humor and I think Canadian
humor's got that edge too know is that
the Brits are very very good at laughing
at themselves the Monty Python troop was
unbelievably good at that because their
humor was all unbelievably good and and
it made the co the comedy in some ways
Timeless too because it wasn't focused
exactly on the political or actually
very rarely on the political and so it's
very strange to see that some of the
jokes from the 1970s many of the skits
that the Monty Python troop pulled off
in the 1970s are still funny as hell and
still and you know I talked to John C at
one point and he told me they were
planning to do a Broadway revitalization
of the Life of Brian you know they
wanted they wanted to cut out the you
remember there's one section with the
little cabel of of left-wing radicals
that the movie centers around one of
them I can't remember the comedian um is
decides that he's a woman about halfway
through the movie and which is yeah yeah
it's very oh yeah it's very funny it's
ridiculously funny yeah yeah yeah and so
and so they
obviously in some spectacular way
foreshadowed all this trans nonsense
that's been coming down the pipeline but
they were very resistant the people who
were going to produce it were very
resistant to continuing to include that
in the Broadway Revival I don't know if
that ever did get sorted out because C
was not happy about it but that's but
that's also a testament to their
satirical Brilliance to have managed
something it's 40 years ago now that
still hits the target you know viciously
enough to be of concern to the woke dim
wits today I mean and it's so
interesting because in the movie in the
Life of
Brian the the desire of this character
to be a woman is actually treated with a
fair bit of is it dignity well it is
it's it's satirical dignity
so there's nothing about it that would
offend anyone who had the the least iota
of sense quite the contrary it's very
very hilarious but uh but it is a good
example of that inability to laugh it's
worth so long it's it's it's definite I
watched it recently again I think after
I talked to C I was curious about it
maybe before because I wanted to you
know pop it back up in my mind but it uh
it's aged very well I would say it's
probably more relevant today than it was
when they released it that's
fantastic when comedy does that yeah
well it's it's it's it zeros in so
tightly on radical leftist nonsense and
you know that was a problem in the 70s
but it was nowhere near as much of a
problem in the 70s as it is now so it's
un we're in Uncharted Territory we are
we are they think they have it all
nailed down
so it's just so great down here in
Austin which is a blue
City and uh you know I was nervous to
come down here my daughter and son were
with me and a friend we went to the
comedy club and uh you know I'd had a
few drinks and I was pretty loose my
friends were there and one of them
wanted me to come on stage and my
daughter you know my daughters are
liberal and uh oh my God so uh she goes
mama don't go on it's a blue city
they're going to hate you and um I went
ah I'm going on I just was brave enough
whatever I was in the mood because my
friends were there well so I go on and I
just it was just fantastic that I think
a lot of it's because it's Austin
because it's a different kind of a blue
City but um and they're young but they
loved it I was shocked my daughter was
shocked and I it got me to move here
because
this a smart comedy audience is never
woke they're not woke you know and they
want to be challenged they want to laugh
at
Ridiculousness and they want to laugh at
themselves you know and they want to
hold their beliefs and their ideas up to
the light and examine it they're not
pwed into silence like so many of the uh
blue thing just cow into silence because
it is so huge how are you going to fight
it it's so huge it's everywhere it's a
monolith and um you know they want to
dictate everything we think do and say
and they think they're Justified to do
it and they have no idea that they're
fascists they have no idea I've found in
on my tours that the most Enthusiast
enthusiastic audiences are in the most
liberal
cities that's what it was I was shocked
yeah yeah yeah well I also think you
know you said that people are censoring
themselves and they don't even know ity
and so one in in the like's say when
I've gone to Portland Portland's a good
example because I have very enthusiastic
crowds in Portland and and large crowds
that's been the case for the all the
leftwing cities that I visited even
Berlin we did a show in Berlin that was
in the middle of the Communist District
the the berliners regarded that as a
Prov a the the real lefties I didn't
bloody well know that the theater was in
the middle of a communist District I you
know essentially I probably wouldn't
have rented it if I would have known
that I'm amazed they rented it to me we
had a fair number of protesters but the
response was very enthusiastic and it's
a large part of it is just it's relief
on people's part you know they don't
even know that they're under this weight
of continual lying having toor they
think no and so then they go somewhere
where that isn't happening and it's like
oh Freedom you know and so and so that's
a relief and that puts everybody in well
the sort of mood that you're in when
you're around people that you can
actually talk to and think with well
it's great down here Joe's comedy club
because it's dedicated to freedom of
speech and uh you know for Comics so
that we can do our best work um yeah and
uh that feeling of freedom is why comics
from all over the country are moving
here to Austin to be able to work yeah
yeah and it's just great because it
feels like a comedy Renaissance you know
exactly you know we we
can't
um we can't challenge ourselves more and
there was a there's it would had been
such a long time where you know the
world of Comedy premises was decreasing
decreasing getting Tighter and Tighter
because there's just so many things that
you couldn't say or you'd be attacked
and run out of town you know but uh this
is just a real free and freeing feeling
and it's just wonderful to look out and
see people of all uh shapes colors sizes
ages laughing together at just the
ridiculous absurdity of it all it it's
just it feels like uh it feels like
Revolution like we've always dreamed of
a revolution for free thoughts free
ideas free people it's just wonderful
when I go on stage there I always say uh
I always thank Joe for uh you know
creating the place for Comics to have
free speech and then I say my goal is to
get 86 the hell out of here you know to
go so far you know because you know
Comics we we like to get in
trouble diversification is key one
person who learned that lesson the hard
way was Isaac Newton who invested a
large sum of money into the south sea
company unfortunately for him when the
south sea bubble burst in 1720 Newton
lost a significant amount of that money
that's why diversification is so
important even for smart people like
Isaac Newton during times of economic
uncertainty or Market volatility
investors tend to flock to gold as a
safe haven asset its value tends to
increase during turbulent times
providing a buffer against market
downturns and is why people are turning
to gold now Birch gold understands that
navigating financial decisions can be
daunting that's why their dedicated
in-house Ira department is there to
guide you every every step of the way
Birch gold is committed to addressing
your questions and concerns promptly
their team is always ready to provide
answers and Clarity whether it's about
fees taxes on rollovers or the timing of
the process they're here to ensure that
you feel valued and well informed text
Jordan to 9898917350
[Music]
Jordan to 9898 98
today well the thing is the the funniest
things you can possibly say are right on
the Ragged edge of disaster right you
want to push it right right yeah
absolutely you want to push it right to
the point of no return and if you can if
you can dangle there that's hilarious
you want people to be thinking I can't
bloody well believe she said that and it
was so perfect right now if you go too
far well then it's trashy or or
genuinely offensive or cheap but it's a
very very very delicate line to to to to
walk I always get the crazy thing she's
crazy well I've said for my whole career
you know that mental health issues so it
is kind of funny that
they it's kind of like they're saying
she has so many mentally mental health
issues that she's completely mentally
health challeng alled well yeah that's
why I'm a
comic yeah well the thing is about the
thing is is that pure crazy isn't funny
like it's just sad I've been to comedy
shows where comedy shows where the
people and these are usually you know
very early career comedy shows let's say
where people come on stage and really do
nothing but confess their sins let's say
sexual and otherwise and that is not
funny that's just sad and so anything
that I don't think anything that's funny
is ever reflective of mental illness I
don't think those two things go together
at all I mean you can say crazy things
no if it's funny it's if it's funny it's
sayane and it doesn't really matter you
know and the thing about comedy too
that's so interesting is that it
operates at this profoundly unconscious
level you know one of the things I
noticed about having little kids is that
even before they could speak they had
really good senses of humor that that
was associated with play and so comedy
humor is so deep that it's there before
words so that's really something and
then everyone laughs in an audience
before they think right if you have to
so so that's what makes comedy
reflective of you well you said it was
holy in in in some sense and it is
because you you're talking directly to
someone before their filters are up and
no you if you laugh the laugh catches
you it's not something you do it's
something that happens to you and and so
that that can't if it's faked or forced
you can tell because the laughter isn't
genuine it's also not any fun it's so
interesting it's it's such a mystery
I've never been able to figure out how
it is that something as sophisticated as
a sense of humor can develop say before
even language and it's definitely
something that bonds people together
right because one of the ways that you
bond with your little kids is with jokes
and games and and even peekaboo is a
joke it's right I'm gone I'm here babies
will laugh like mad about that they
laugh with repetition that's disrupted
in a surprising way it's very very
interesting and um well the one of the
great Joys I have 10 grandkids so one of
the great Joys is you know trying and
see how how young you can get them to
laugh me I mean I just love to see where
is it where they find the funny I I love
to watch where is where is someone
finding the funny and yeah no kidding
they f it seems like Universal that you
find it in the you know uh reflexive
body issues like farting and stuff like
that our Bel and kids love that I'm a
huge star to my grandkid kids in the
comedy department for all that kind of
thing but uh you know and well was
something I really enjoyed about having
little kids because I kept that sort of
tradition that I grew up in of
competitive comedy alive in the house
and so I was always oh I was so fun and
my kids both have great senses of humor
like I don't think my daughter Michaela
I don't think she ever says anything
that isn't a
joke and so and and that's where she's
most comfortable I mean it's it took my
took my wife quite a while to realize
this she probably only said this to me
about 10 years ago she came up to me and
she said you know I think everything
Michaela says is a joke and I thought
yeah that's exactly right I'm glad that
you got that and so and because there's
always an edge to it you know and and
it's a it's a challenge too in some ways
when you when you speak and play like
that because the challenge is to see if
the people that you're interacting with
can well can tolerate that and can
understand and can appreciate it it's a
lovely thing to be able to speak about
serious things with that comedic Edge I
mean that's that's a real art man to
transmute suffering into Joy that's for
sure I said that last night it's so
funny they wanted me to come down
because they were having a open mic
night and they had a a young woman and
she has a disease I can't remember the
name but she's in a wheelchair doing
comedy it's like a Ms kind of a disign
yeah yeah and she's beautiful girl young
student and uh she did just a great set
she did just a few minutes but um so
they I'm kind of like the comedy grandma
and I I you know I'm they all
roast the people but I don't want to do
that because I said oh I'm just I'm too
famous and Rich and goodlook to do that
you know so I have to do the grandma
thing plus I love to Mentor The Young
Ones and so I said to her um you know
you you are so lovely and people really
love you they love your comedy because
you have the essence of comedy in you to
be we all see that you have reached down
into that that pool of pain that you
obviously have lived through in your
life and brought out Beauty and joy and
that isting for people and that's the
essence of comedy and you are going to
be a huge star yeah yeah well one of the
things I noticed like my daughter was
extremely ill when she was a kid she had
terrible juvenile arthritis and she had
her hip replaced when she was 16 and her
ankle replaced when she was 17 it was
really bad she was in like excruciating
pain for about 15 years which is really
quite a long time and she has talked
about that publicly and I've been at
some of the events they haven't been
taped some of the events where she spoke
about what happened to her and she's
able to make her stories of that period
of time often screamingly funny and
that's actually a real indication of
recovery right it isn't that you can
just talk about it without emotion it's
that you can what would you can say you
see it is it the absurdity I guess it's
the absurdity it's something like that
but that is that's a real art form to be
able to take those those excreting
moments and to make them into something
that's sharable and that enables
everybody to rise above the pain at the
same time and you know trying to think
of the word that uh oh it used to be
medieval where you would where they
would talk about transforming tin into
Alchemy yes that's what it is AB Alchemy
and watch you know you were talking
about laughter before and for Comics uh
well we love to get people to where they
can't stop laughing they want to not
laugh and the other thing is you know
when you were in school and and you you
weren't supposed to laugh but something
made you laugh that's the best thing to
watch from the stage when you see people
going through that it's and then you
just push on and until people we always
say like when the head goes back and
there's a intake of breath that's when
you're healing because you actually are
killing them in a way but it's a good
kind of kill you know what when I used
to go work out with a couple of friends
of mine in Boston and one of the games
we would play was to tell a joke when
people were bench pressing because well
when you laugh you lose all your
muscular force and that's really
interesting too e because it and I I've
been trying to figure that out as a
psychologist it's like obviously
laughter is associated with play and
play is the opposite of power and
aggression play is truly the opposite of
power that took me like four decades to
figure out that play is the antithesis
of power and it's so interesting then
when people laugh they go yeah it's a
very good thing to know you know
especially in your relationships because
if you're playing with your children or
you're playing with your wife then you
know that you're not being a tyrant and
you can do almost anything in a spirit
of play I mean it's hard when you're
suffering that's for sure it's it's hard
to transmute real pain into play but if
you're doing anything perfectly you're
doing it in play and it's so interesting
to see that when you make people laugh
they lose all their muscular Force you
know they collapse into laughter they
dissolve into laughter and it takes them
over and so I and they do that they do
that you know sometimes if we're getting
real spiritual with it and we say it's
that Universal ha it's the expression of
you know the ha you know because when
you're a meditator you know it's the
it's the you know in inhale and the
exhale so it's like the exhale and the
letting go of uh you know Secrets almost
yeah
right ghosts and Devils right
right it's really powerful and uh you
know well it's interesting to have
people do that communally too because
what that means this is something that's
profound too and and I'm it is something
that Joe Rogan is managing to Foster
this again in Austin because it also
takes a lot of trust to laugh jointly at
a joke right because especially if the
joke is offkey or pushing the limits the
fact that you'll laugh with others means
that a that a that a situation of trust
is being established in the room right
and I've spent some time thinking about
trust like I actually think that the
only true natural resource is trust that
if people people trust each other they
can make the Desert Bloom you know
that's yeah yeah it's definitely the
case and and comedy is a comedy is a an
Endeavor that's predicated on a
tremendous amount of trust right because
the the the the audience has to trust
the comedian and the comedian has to
trust the audience I mean one of the
things I've learned to do you tell me
what you tell me about this for you
before I go out on
stage I always remind myself that the
people that are in the audience this
might be easier for me I think it's more
true for my audience for a variety of
reasons they're on my side and as long
as I'm grateful that I'm that they're
there and I'm communicating honestly
everybody is aiming at the same thing
now I know in a comedy situation it's
more complex because there's going to be
cynics in the audience you know more but
like what what's your attitude to your
audience do you think like how do you
how do you res how do you conceive of
your audience and how did you learn that
well you know I've been a comic for
almost 40
years so you learn it by trial and error
and by going in front of different kinds
of audiences and trying the same thing
to see how it will work in front of this
specific group until it works everywhere
so you know you it's trial and error but
it's so many other things like you know
that you could tell a joke and if you
don't do the right Rhythm of the joke or
have the right uh um inflection it won't
work so it's like so many things that
are combined in it but I
think I think that what I've learned is
when the
audience knows or
trusts
that you
are having fun and that you're enjoying
it and yeah that you have gratitude that
they've come there to see you and they
love you and then you can't help but
love them back you know I mean already
you love them because they're your fans
and they keep you alive you know and
there is a tethering between me and my
fans and I suppose every every other
comic might have that same view I don't
know but it's a tethering to reality and
to the best in in humankind uh they
want they want you know how Virginia
wolf said the the job of the writer is
to put the severed Parts together
right I think she wrote that in three
guineas but uh one of my favorite books
but anyway I always think of Comedy like
that because we're we're putting the
severed Parts together that other people
may not see and and
um that's mostly what we do things that
seem
disparate ideas but then when you really
look at them under a a microscope there
they're very connected and people are
like oh
yeah right right right that's an Insight
yeah yeah that that that that that
drawing of connection yeah and once you
do that and
they they um
appreciate that you it's well thought
yeah definitely thought out and then
they're they're kind of like well I
thought that way to there's that too I
think that way too but I I couldn't say
that way or it didn't occur to me in
that way but you gave words to something
that was like vague and spinning around
in my head you you you gave me the
building blocks for that
so you know
a lot of love it's just really a lot of
love and you know just such a great
positive energy thing to be able to
affect that
and to watch it people don't people
don't often I know don't hear them talk
a lot about being on state I mean we
talk about some stuff like you know
doing a great set or killing or you know
having a good one or bombing or whatever
but don't talk about that relationship
that you're building the this beautiful
relationship um it is so
spiritual
uh to
watch people get
it to be the person in the arena that's
fun yeah yeah that's so fun well so my
tour manager was a standup comedian for
a long time John oconnell and and
and he toured with standup comedians
professionally as well as a manager and
there's a lot of similarity between what
I do and what standup comedians do and
one of one of the similarities that I've
really started to understand is I've
talked to a variety of comedians Jimmy
Carr really helped me think this through
because he's thought a lot about what he
does and is able to articulate it well
you know Carr said that and I know many
comedians do this and maybe you do this
when you're when you're preparing a set
is that you know he'll go when he's
preparing new material he goes to
smaller clubs and tries out his new
material and some of the jokes land and
others don't and he just collects the
jokes that land and so and I thought
that was so interesting because standup
comedy looks like it's a monologue but
it's got that diolog element in the
initial practice because like he helped
me understand that you could be a
comedian by telling a lot of jokes and
seeing which ones people laughed at and
then just collecting those and you don't
need much of a hit rate right if you
need to generate 90 minutes worth of
material and you have five hours of
jokes you can just get rid of the 80%
that aren't any good the audience will
tell you what's funny and one of the
things I love about the lectures that I
do which are spontaneous so I'm always
watching people you know in the audience
I'm always talking to someone
and I want to see them I want to see
their eyes light up I want to see them
be struck by something right I want to
give words to something they already
know but can't say and people have told
me that a lot that they like my lectures
because I say things they know to be
true but haven't been able to articulate
and certainly comedians do that well
they do that all the time and it is
great cuz often if I can make a point
that's that has that characteristic but
is also funny I mean that's a real
that's a that's a blast if you can
manage to pull that off it's a real
blast too and when you're right in your
set you know because I do 90 minutes but
you do it in groups you know you do your
jokes in groups to build on an idea that
culminates you know it's like little
groups are probably five to seven
minutes and you start at one premise
with a joke and then the next joke is
that kind of built on that prev previous
premise and it goes a little bit deeper
and then the next yeah goes deeper and
then by the fifth part of the bit you've
blown up the whole premise and showed
that it was all along that's
what I like to do and it's like turn
everything on its head from its head I I
can't really explain it but that's my
favorite part because it's like oh she
went we thought she was going to go left
but she went right
I mean I'm not talking politically we
thought she was going here but the whole
time she was taking us here I love that
misdirection stuff because that gets the
biggest laughs because they thought they
were getting set up for something
completely different I like to remove
their expectations where they go where
they go oh yeah I've heard this before
you know come in and go and I you know
by virtue of the fact that I I've always
been one of few women in comedy um
that that's been a A plus for
me you you mentioned earlier you
mentioned earlier that you have thought
through comedy from the perspective I
think you said age and sex what else but
and so talk a little bit more about
being a female in the comedy industry
because most comedians are men like my
experience has been
that St like truly comical standup ComEd
iian females are very
rare it's too hard it's so hard but you
know one thing I found out probably
because I have five kids you know I I
that's one of my good jokes I say you
know I have five children I used to be
kind of
prolife that's a good joke yeah that's a
good joke but my friends are all Comics
but you know all these guys I always ask
people because I'm nosy I'm nosy nosy
old Jewish woman and uh so I'll ask and
they they always have a funny
mom so much part of it oh yeah you know
so they that's interesting you know what
my mother my mother just died she died
this week and one of the great memories
I have of my mother is and this is
something I always knew about hers I
could always make her
laugh and so that was a big basis of our
relationship I could always make Mom
laugh by teasing her in fact I think the
last thing I said to her when she was in
the hospital I was given her hell about
being in the hospital because my father
was ill and so we were worried about him
and then she ended up in the hospital
and I gave her a rough time and you know
that made her laugh and so that's
interesting and I didn't I didn't I
haven't heard anyone say that that
relationship of comedy with mother is so
particularly important but that was
definitely the case in my household it
was my mom that I could really make
laugh I wonder wonder why that is
exactly form of it's obviously a form of
play but I wonder why it would be Sex
Link like that well I want to hear more
about your experiences as a female ComEd
comedian hard life on the road a so
that's part of the I well I didn't go on
the road too much until I uh was
older I didn't come up like a normal
comedian because I had so many kids but
uh I did go on tour for 18 weeks with
Julio eaus as his opening act there was
the beginning of my bigger career and uh
yeah that was so difficult oh my God it
was so hard to live through that but uh
when I started comedy It Was 1980 and uh
they didn't like women they didn't you
know nobody liked women too much then if
they do now I I don't think they do but
anyway they really didn't like fun women
and they didn't like women comedy and
they didn't like women's comedy they
didn't like women's anything to do with
it because it was so all about men you
know it was all men and uh and it was
very um it was fraternal and very
Collegiate and I was not any of those
things but they they didn't like me and
uh that was like the first time I got
deplatformed or whatever we calling it
censored they didn't like me and so they
refused to let me work there at the
comedy club in Denver and
uh but I wanted to do it and um so I had
to go to these alternative places to do
comedy like I I would uh go to punk
clubs and I'd end up in MOS pit with no
microphone doing comedy that's why my
voice is so loud because I learned that
there just telling telling jokes in a
mosh pit I mean I can't believe it
sometimes but I mean I learned so much I
go to biker bars I'd go to jazz clubs I
I'd go to a Unitarian Church lesbian
lunches and
uh you know um to 20 people and um you
know small groups and
uh it made me way better it made me
Fearless it made me I bet more
determined it made me better because it
made me fearless and uh you know
fighting to keep my head above water
until
finally uh some man comics from La came
and they they saw me and they went to
the club that had censored me and said
you really should let that girl that's
what they called
me you you should let that girl on she's
really funny and uh they pressured the
club
to uh let me back in and so they did
because I had these really
strong male Comics who were well known
who were traveling through Colorado
through Denver advocate for me so had I
not had that I don't know what would
have happened but they kind of treated
me like
a a nice sister you know they were very
brotherly to me and uh once that
happened
um I kind of took off and that was only
a matter of about four years then I went
to Hollywood and I I had one of those
overnight things that happened I was
there one night and I got all these
breaks and ended up on The Tonight Show
and my first time on The Tonight Show
Julio eaus was a guest and picked me to
go on tour with him and I got my TV show
from that so it was a really a matter of
one night so why did gasius decide that
a comedy show was a good way to open his
his his well everybody had a comic
opening for him back then and you know I
was doing housewife jokes and his fans
were you know women and uh he thought it
would
be a good idea and it was it was a blast
oh my my gosh it was so fun I had not
ever really been in front of big crowds
before because I had just been in Denver
but like to play the Astrodome in front
of 50,000 people as just you know a
standup comic it was just it was
overwhelming and fantastic to stand
there on stage in front of that many
people and hear the laughter coming down
off the walls like is raining down from
heaven it
it it was just wonderful and we did that
all through the United States and so
that made
me more uh efficient as a comic you know
and more excited and uh more efficient
what do you mean what do you mean by
more efficient oh oh to be able to as
Mitsy Shore called it who's the mother
of all of us standup Comics really from
the comedy story in
La she would always say your job is to
deliver the mail you were up there for
two minutes and you didn't deliver the
mail you were fering and huming and you
weren't delivering the mails you I say
that you know and so the efficiency of
setup punchline next you know just the
effici rhythm of no fat no no long
premise with extra words no right to
edit to
go and you know I had famous comic
friends who they befriended and mentored
me like you know I met Rodney
Dangerfield and he chose me to play his
wife he never had done that oh yeah and
uh you know Bob Hope even and philis
Diller and uh Dick Gregory Richard PRI
all these people I could name that I
love so much would uh sit around and
speak with me about comedy and we they
they talk me about removing the fact
even an extra word is making you less
efficient because you want to say the
least amount of words and the perfect
amount of Rhythm with the right
inflection and
expression and uh you know that's a lot
of
stuff plates it's like that guy spinning
in the air and then boom you got to come
in at the right time they might be
laughing really hard for a long long
time and that screws up your punchline
and so you kind of get mad like shut up
I'm trying to deliver the punch line and
you're laughing but then you go hey
they're supposed to that's what you're
here for just you know you're GNA have
to chill so you have to figure out how
am I going to navigate this to get the
best punch line because I know it's a
good punch line and I want a huge laugh
I don't just you know because I monitor
the laughs we all do like oh I'm only
getting a six when it should have been
an eight you know you're just the thing
about my boyfriend is a musician too we
always talk about music and comedy is
just a great way of being in the now
you're so in the now you know you're not
thinking about yesterday tomorrow
nothing even a minute ago you just have
to be in the now to deliver the mail you
know deliver right the punch deliver the
art starting a business can be tough but
thanks to Shopify running your online
storefront is easier than ever Shopify
is the global Commerce platform that
helps you sell at every stage of your
business from the launch your online
shop stage all the way to the did we
just hit a million orders stage Shopify
is there to help you grow our marketing
team uses Shopify every day to sell our
merchandise and we love how easy it is
to add more items ship products and
track conversions Shopify helps you turn
browsers into buyers with the internet's
best converting checkout up to 36%
better compared to other leading
e-commerce platforms no matter how big
you want to grow Shopify gives you
everything you need to take control and
take your business to the next level
sign up for a $1 per month trial period
at shopify.com jbp go to shopify.com jbp
now to grow your business no matter what
stage you're in that's shopify.com
[Music]
jbp yeah well so you you're you're
touching there on a lot of motifs with
regard to the sacredness let's say of
Comedy as well it's like you have to
separate the wheat from from the chaff
so you have to be efficient I loved
Mitch Hedberg for that reason cuz he
could just deliver like God amazing
amazing ability to just deliver non-stop
short jokes and and often so perfect um
so and then you talked about plate
spinning one of the things I really find
fun about lecturing and I think this is
one of the things that makes my lectures
akin to a comedic Act is that I like to
bring five or six stories that I haven't
told together
and then to see if I can weave them so
that right near the end of the lecture
they all come together and make the same
point and we call that call back so that
you know when you build the story and
then you get to where you you're
reminding them that you were talking
about that before and yeah you know make
the relationship come together those are
the most fun when a callback will occur
to you and you because you will get the
biggest laugh and Applause on callbacks
it's most fun thing that one you just
feel like it's a gift from God and I
like I do feel like so much of it is a
God thing um you know because I always
tell people when we're getting real
spiritual with stuff I'm like well God
God wrote me some great jokes today
because you know they do come in like
that I will um you know I'll be sitting
there writing writing writing and it's
just crap you know three pages of
crap and uh there's a certain and
feeling physical
feeling like suspended animation is what
it feels like and the top of my head
actually opens in some way and God
inserts an idea in there and it's it's
my best jokes I I don't it doesn't feel
like I'm doing it because I it just is a
whole other thing that's that's like
when you're in the wave you're in the
channel you're in the groove you yeah
like a lot of musicians say yeah when
they're playing jazz musicians you know
it's just the phrase comes in but God
put these he'll just lay these jokes in
there and that's why I always say God's
the funniest comic of all because look
what he does in the world it's all
hilarious his sense of relationship and
the way people live that they don't see
it um is the funniest thing in the world
to me how funny he is like uh I'm trying
to think of how to illustrate that it'll
come to me but it's not right now but I
get my best jokes just they
just it's like a
download well there's in and it's
interesting though too because you said
that that often happens when you've
written you know three pages of of
second rate material to get those
moments you have to put in that
counterproductive work to I mean when
I'm writing like I throw away 80% 90% of
what I write and that's often painful
because well when I was finishing up my
last book which was only a week ago like
I was cutting half chapters that took me
a whole month to write it's like but it
doesn't matter right because the the
fundamental issue is that you conserve
that wheat and you get rid of the chaff
and the more that you get rid of that
second rate the better you have the
better what's left over is
and you know the other the other thing
that's kind of sacred about the comedic
Act is that you said that you're in the
moment is that you really have to pay
attention to the audience and not be
afraid of them because then you can feel
where everyone is like you're having a
conversation with someone cuz you are
when you're on stage even if it's a
monologue the audience has to be along
for the ride and that's where you you
you can capitalize on timing is
something I'm not great at like I can't
really tell jokes I can be funny on
stage but it has to be spontaneous I've
I've never really learned the art of
telling a joke that I already knew it's
it's it's it it isn't a skill that I've
managed to develop but I can see the
connection with the comedic World by
watching comedians pay attention to the
audience and and because timing is
everything right you have to be dancing
with the audience and they have to be in
that zone and the lecture is exactly the
same way you know you want to you want
to make sure that the words are landing
exactly when they should and that you're
it's been hard for me also to learn
because I'm often lecturing about
serious things and I'll throw in a joke
it's been hard for me to learn to take
the time to let the audience have a bit
of a breather around the joke you know
and to and not to rush ahead yeah yeah
that that's exactly right you know
taking a a drink of your Coke
you know we all have we all have learned
those little things to let them catch up
to you let them catch their breath reset
their brain because especially if you've
taken them to into new
territory they need a little rest you
know and so do you but uh so it's just
the greatest thing it's uh I'm
so I'm so thankful that I was given a
gift there I do consider that I I was
given a great
I was given
a wonderful gift that helped me yeah the
only thing I can really compare it to is
a great musical
performance yeah right and and that
that's got that same what would you say
magic that pulls the crowd in and that
there's a tremendous amount of attention
that goes along with that too the the
great musicians this is what I one of
the things I love about listening to
Billy Holiday for example because every
every single word she sings is attended
to like every word is a little work of
art you know she's got that intense
attention and I've I've been curious too
about why so many people who are
successful on YouTube were commedians
but I think it's because of their
ability well first of all a sense of
humor helps in you're if you're an
interviewer say but I suspect that what
it really has to do with is the ability
of comedians to pay attention
yeah right cuz you're nowhere if you
can't be funny unless you're paying
attention you have to be as you said
right in the moment you have to see
what's the right next thing to say to
keep the conversation flowing to to
throw in something from left field but
not to left field so yeah it's the plate
spinning thing yeah right you have to be
you know when you get real meta with it
it's like well you're kind of in the
past the present and the future all in
the same
now right because you have to think
about how am I going to follow this up
and especially in my shows people they
they I they like to Heckle me in a
friendly way or just start talking for
some reason you know because it is like
a conversation and you know I love it
too and for some reason that's when I
really love it because I love when my
brain is working on three or four
channels at once all Comics love that
because like I was so sharp and you know
you're you're telling your friends I was
on it I you know I I did you know one we
bragging to each other you know uh or
explaining to each other but yeah you're
it's a heightened heightened awareness
thing and I don't know you're just if
you're funny in life you're even funnier
on stage because you got the
stress and the pressure of I better be
good you know yeah and it propels you
but um how did you cope with how how do
you cope and did you cope with jokes
that aren't that don't work I mean part
of the reason I think I've had a hard
time telling jokes on stage is because I
get self-conscious if halfway through
the joke I get self-conscious that's
really the problem you know and then of
course it doesn't work cuz I screw up
the timing but there there are few
things more Awkward than making a joke
that isn't funny and you said you played
in some pretty rough places and
obviously you exposed yourself to enough
of that to but but I'm curious about why
you were able to tolerate that to begin
with because it's it's actually pretty
painful to tell a joke that doesn't work
especially if you know it's funny and
you just screwed it up so how what do
you think it was that impelled you to
get through those those bouts of
self-consciousness that that you know
paralyze most people to the point where
they won't you know people are terrified
at public speaking much less doing
standup comedy so how why how and why
did you persevere through
that yeah I wonder that myself sometimes
but it was a i
i because it was such a I think it's
because it was such a a
self it it was such a survival mechanism
in my family and my childh
uh and it was a self-defense mechanism
for me to survive a lot of crazy and
painful
things
uh
that it it it in a way I talk I'm
friends with Mike Tyson you know and
it's a lot like boxing I always talked
about we always compared when we talked
about it it it's so much jousting
it's mental jousting to be on stage and
to stay in control of one woman you know
with with no props with no Orchestra
yeah yeah with no video just stay in
control of a you know 5,000 seat room
just with your voice because it's a lot
of mental jousting and well they're not
going to defeat me not after what I went
through as a kid I'm not going to let
them defeat me because I can't be
defeated right so that's an attitude of
challenge rather than fear yeah it's
like no they're not you know it's like I
always feel somehow it's a God thing to
me and it's like the devil ain't getting
me I'll take the devil down that's why
I'm on stage and he isn't going to get
me and so that's what I do and when I
screw up then I just you know feel bad
and embarrassed but I go home and I I go
you know I'm going to make it better I
never feel defeated I don't allow myself
to feel defeated because comedy is a
living thing and you can always get
better you can nobody can stop you from
getting better you can always right
right right and I'm not going to let
them stop me I'm going to just keep
getting better no matter what they tried
to do to stop me they're not going to
till I have my last breath I'm going to
be saying F you because that's how I
feel you know uh they're not going to
stop me unless they gag me I mean
there's things they can do to me I guess
they've done enough but you know I I
respect and uh I I respect and believe
in and live for the truth and comedy is
truth and uh you know you're trying to
tell the truth to people to make the
world better you're you're not trying to
make light of people suffering you're
trying to get at Power and bring it down
and make it so it feels like I'm I guess
I feel like a you know a a warrior a
word
Warrior and you know for me it's also
like for all the people who were told to
shut up I'm they're there with me too
you know I I see it so I see it
so deeply like that because you know
geez it is like that you know well it it
is well I espe I think that's especially
the case if you're a comedian who's
popular among the working class you know
because workingclass people the sensible
ones
and I think most workingclass people
over about 40 are pretty damn sensible
that doesn't necessarily mean they're
particularly articulate you know and
people can be wise without being
articulate and then if you're a
workingclass comedian then you have the
as you pointed out you have the opport
and the privilege of articulating that
and that is a big deal and it is
something that's going to make people
love you because people like to have the
words at hand to say what they know to
be true and it is a very peculiar thing
to the idea on my show I've probably
written 120,000 jokes wow and part of
the joy of it is when I was on my TV
show was I I would think oh here's
something that some fat lady or some fat
guy is going to say at the water
fountain at
work right right so it's like arming
people who may have suffered or yeah
right felt uh you
know uh marginalized here's a little bit
of something for you you know because
when I watched comedians as a kid with
my dad on Ed Sullivan and here Richard
prior people man I felt like I I was
being gift did especially
prior but uh you know all of them really
but uh I loved Richard prayer he is my
idol and became a friend which was a
wonderful part of being the comic but
you know to get I got what he was doing
as just a little tiny girl I saw the
implication of everything he was doing I
knew I knew that he had gone I knew that
he was in side a
stereotype kicking Down the Walls from
the inside I knew that and I said I can
do
that I could do that my friend Michael
malice I don't know if you know who he
is oh yeah yeah I know Michael he's a
yeah he's very Michael's very funny he's
very funny and he told me he goes god
with you it's pathological he always
tells me you're you're funny is
pathological you can't turn it off you
know or like in private and you know I
it is pathological but
uh you know when I'm in the mood for it
but um and I'm a crusader and a lot of
us are you know Richard was well tell
tell me a bit more about Roseanne and
how that started up and why it was you
think yeah yeah yeah yeah tell me about
the show and why it was that it turned
into such a Smash
Hit what do you think you did right I
mean first of all it was very unlikely
right you said you had these weird
coincidences happened to you when you
went off to Hollywood and it all came
together pretty quickly so how did you
like what did you say yes to and why did
you make it work how did you make it
work oh my gosh that was real you know I
have I have the story I tell normal
people you know and the normal press
people uh I always wanted to be a
comedian and
um so I started at age 28 to tell jokes
and but the real thing is when I was
little and we watch TV and see like
Father Knows Best in all these shows I'd
look around and go hell this is nothing
like my family nobody has diabetes and
none of the men are fat and covered in
hair you know it it was nothing I go
this is nothing like anything I've ever
seen where are these people they're not
screaming they don't eat with their
mouth open you know they you know and I
had it in my head since a young age boy
I want to get on TV and have my show and
uh I want to do the Rosanne show where I
show
people that I know and TV how come
there's nobody like our family on TV but
we did have The Honeymooners I remember
right I loved and I also idolized Jackie
gleon and uh I loved the honeymooner so
much that was a real working class
miracle that show still that one stood
up over time over a century it's still
brilliant and just like a bare set and
human dialogue that guy was so great
Charlie Chaplan I I all these things you
know who I really love Mr Bean that guy
doesn't even need language he's so great
but um you
had the fantasy someday I'm going to get
on there and show a family of fat people
that fight and it was always in my head
and I wanted
to show another less
perfect thing and it was always in my
head
um and so after the Julio eaus tour
Hollywood came knocking to do a show and
uh so
I said yes I'd like to do that and uh I
don't know I thought it was going to be
a lot easier than it was once I signed
up and got into it like so many people
say especially Comedians and then you
see how the Works how the sausage
is made yeah how the sausage it's like
what have I done right have I got myself
into and just trying to keep your head
above water where they're trying to drag
your feet
down it might be easy to just toss all
of your discipline to the side for the
summer but a life of greatness doesn't
happen by taking the easy route the
Hallow app offers an incredible range of
guided meditations and prayers that are
designed to help you deepen your
spirituality and strengthen your
connection to God with hallow you can
embark on a journey of exploration
diving into different themes and types
of prayer and meditation from gratitude
to forgiveness each session offers a
unique experience sparking your
curiosity and deepening your spiritual
understanding you can choose different
lengths of meditation to fit your
schedule whether you have a few minutes
or an hour with its userfriendly
interface and hundreds of guided
meditations the hall app has quickly
become a go-to resource for people
seeking spiritual growth and healing you
can download the app for free at
hall.com Jordan it allows you to set
prayer reminders and track your progress
Hall is truly transformative and it'll
help you connect with your faith on a
deeper level don't lose your prayer
habits this summer maintain your peace
and deepen your relationship with God
download the Hallow app today at
hall.com Jordan for an exclusive 3-month
trial that's hall.com
Jordan well it's a production Mill a so
I mean it's a it's a funny thing for a
comedian to do a sitcom because those
aren't the same
thing they're really not the same thing
and you could see very funny people
become less and less funny as their
sitcoms progress partly because I think
they just get exhausted it's like well
you you there's only so many golden eggs
the goose can lay and then there's so
many people that you have to please too
which whereas when you're on the stage
well you have to please yourself and
your audience but there isn't that your
group of 40 people even if they're on
your side I don't know how it's got to
be very difficult to do comedy
collaborative
l so yeah I I I tried it and uh you know
I I worked out a system that kind of
followed along with being a mom you know
I'll have the final word you guys can
play you can put in things but I'll have
the final word and because I could write
a joke you know I could overwrite they
you know I don't want to say they had
shitty jokes but a lot of times they did
and I just snap it in because I have
pathologic pathological joke writing
ability and I cannot not do it I cannot
not correct a joke that right right I
can understand that yeah yeah yeah
and so that that that was just part of
just the whole disal of what I did and
uh well that's a that's a sign of
expertise you know when when great chess
there's as many chess possibilities in a
single chess game as there are are atoms
in the observable universe and so it's
very yeah so there's a lot but an expert
chess player can look at a board and
know what to do like it's a Gestalt and
that expertise you're talking about with
regards to jokes that really is the sign
of being an expert you see the patterns
and if you see
them it's like seeing an obstacle in
front of your path or something like
that you can't not see it and you said
you wrote 120,000 jokes how many of them
do you think were funny what percentage
do you think were funny like truly funny
um all I'm I'm talking about on my show
and and the jokes I've told over the
years oh oh oh I I probably have like
six hours of jokes that I've told as a
standup comic and then the show what was
it uh three or four 10 years of uh 20 to
30 episodes a year it's a lot of jokes
that's for sure um and they didn't get
on the show unless they were funny you
know how many jokes do you think you
wrote that weren't that weren't that
didn't make the cut because I'm trying
to get at how much work you had to do to
get that expertise right right 10,000
that
sucked but I keep tinkering on them and
sometimes just putting the word and in
there would make them work you know like
I said there's so many levels of it some
sometimes just a just moving words
around or saying it with a different
inflection would make it work so it's
just like a tinkering a craft it is a
craft you know to
craft those ideas into a sellable joke
that you can deliver there's so much to
it I mean I can't even it it' probably
be a real bore to sit and talk about
that with people who weren't really
well it's it's interesting to try to
figure out why really pointed
communication works I mean there isn't
any more pointed communication than
jokes absolutely man you got to be right
on the money and so it's definitely
worth some analysis
because it's hard to get it right and
it's so perfect when it is right just
think you know one of the things that
we've been dancing around here is the
notion that the truth truth stated most
perfectly is comedic and isn't that
amazing that that what you get with the
right kind of Truth at the right moment
is like a burst of pleasure a release of
of tension that's so amazing and you you
you you got to kind of Wonder as a
consequence of that just how far you
could push that you know we talked about
the fact that if you do things right
there's a there's an intense play in
that and I truly believe that if you
were the master of the moment you'd be
playing all the time that's a hell yeah
right right right right that's a good
thing to my wife and I have been
practicing that very hard she she had a
boat of both of us we had boats of De
fatal illnesses a couple of years ago we
had a pretty good relationship before
that but it's better now because I think
we both take less for granted maybe
that's part of it it put a new
seriousness into our relationship but
we're trying to bring that Spirit of
play to every moment and man you know
you if you make that a game an aim and a
game
then well you get better at it and
that's there isn't anything that's more
fun than that now you're I was just
thinking when I ran you know I ran for
president in
2012 uh on the Peace and Freedom Party
which my idol Dick Gregory also ran on
that party as a presidential candidate
in the 60s and um they say they say had
votes really been tabulated correctly he
might have actually won
but you know you know considering the
fact that he wasn't on every state
ballot
but that always intrigued me so I wanted
to do the same and
uh because we agreed on so many things
it's deep thought deep political thought
goes into comedy too but when I ran my
speech I said uh I'm the only serious
comedian in the
race yeah right because these other guys
are just
Jokers but I'm a serious comedian and so
you know I I did it in a um humorous way
but uh you know I said you know they
just go for the laugh because that's a
lot of comics too you know just going
for a you know a
uh cheap laugh the cheap laugh yeah I
guess the cheap laugh is one that's not
connected to any anything else hey CU
you you know you pointed out that in a
good comedy set you're weaving things
together and the more complex humor is
going to have a story associated with it
there's going to be interweaving across
the across the set I mean some Comics do
more of that than others um but like
that brilliant yeah right yeah yeah that
yeah he's a really good example of that
he's a real storyteller Bill Cosby was
really good at that too I know it's
illegal to say his name but God he was
funny he another Idol another Idol well
he I saw him in Edmonton in in the mid
70s I think a long long time ago and you
know he came out on the stage with just
a stool and a cigar and he had people
laughing so hard in the audience that
they were literally hyperventilating it
was amazing things to watch and and he
was a real storyteller right it wasn't I
mean there are comedians like Mitch
Hedberg that are like their stories are
one joke long and you and Jimmy Carr
does that too you can pull that off but
Cosby was a real storyteller and it was
amazing thing to watch his Mastery of
the stage such a catastrophe when things
blew up when he blew things up around
him that was such a drag because on the
surface he had done so much good and he
was so funny I mean he was he was crazy
he was a crazy Master of the
stage well you know it's like uh there's
they say there's such a thin line
between you know Madness and talent you
know and he he he's the textbook example
yeah yeah his shadow got the best of
them right so many Comics are have the
same you know problems with you know
their outlets and how they don't have a
lot of self-control there but on stage
it's a
master yeah y yep hey so now you're
spending a fair bit of time we talked a
little bit briefly just before the
podcast started you're spend spending a
fair bit of time in Austin and you're
going to be doing shows at Joe's at
Rogan's Comedy Club a the mother no I'm
doing it at another place called Cap
City Cap City comedy club and I'm G to
be there in Austin June 17 18 and 19 how
big a venue is that I think it's I think
it's pretty small maybe 300 seats but
it's a a good place to like uh work it
you know and you know you you always try
it takes about a year to get a whole new
hour right right so and then you have to
Tool it and so it's it's at at the point
to take it to an audience and I'm kind
of excited about it I I haven't done a
90 minute
show in um Austin yet so I do look
forward
yeah okay now you did say that you had
performed at Rogan's comedy club though
yeah I S there but we only do like 15 20
minutes oh I see so you're developing a
whole uhhuh uhhuh and when was the last
time you did
that oh my gosh I think well I guess it
was about a year and a
half huh when I did so what what now
you're working on Mr burum what what
like do you have act what are your plans
for your future I mean you you've had a
bumpy ride with all the cancellations
yeah yeah I'm doing a podcast on on uh
you know I guess it's where everybody is
doing podcast YouTube um
Rumble Apple you know it's called the
rosean bar podcast which I'm really
getting into I've done 49 of them now oh
yeah and I'm just loving that
conversation with conversations with
intelligent
people and uh fighting the good fight
try trying to wake people up trying to
say the things that aren't that are like
missing I like to go to the places that
are
not really being talked about and uh how
are you picking your guests I I pick
them by uh well mostly it's people who
call and want to be on because a lot of
people are calling and wanting to be on
flattering and I'm like yeah I'd love to
interview I just had tulsy Gabbert on
and that was a fantastic interview
because she's a tough cookie yeah we
both are from Hawaii I mean I also live
in Hawaii part of the year and to be
able to talk about Hawaii and how it
creates a different kind of culture and
a person with a different sort of point
of view than the mainland we got to talk
about that then talk about politics of
course you know I'm a huge Trump
supporter and and uh you so I like to
talk about that and what that means to
me it means uh um populism and the yeah
the uh Awakening of populism which I
think that's the whole point of
everything is what do you what do you
think of trump as a comedian I've got
this think he's funnier in Hell the guy
I got this book that someone put
together that and they gave me it's a
library Edition so it looks like a very
professional hard cover and it's called
the collected poetry of Donald Trump I
have that book you have that book it's
hilarious it is it's all his tweets fun
oh you have that book that's so funny
yeah but I I read through that and I
thought oh man like he's he's definitely
underappreciated as a comedian because
like he's very pointed like very very
pointed but that's a hilarious
collection it's ridiculously funny and I
know that's part of the reason he
connects with workingclass audiences cuz
he's got that vicious wit yeah oh yeah
he's just hilarious and people love it
um that's what I appreciate most about
him is you know how funny he is and you
know when they don't like you like when
they don't like me and they start
writing your jokes up as if they're
serious that's serious too just to be
part of that or read it or watch it it's
like how arrogant they are that'd be
like you know remember Henny youngman's
joke take my my wife please remember so
that would be like if the Press would go
hen Youngman is trying to traffic his
wife you know they they write it as a
joke as if it's a serious thing because
they don't like we that's also get humor
well it's also one of the real dangers
about being funny and telling jokes
because a really good joke taken out of
context looks often looks very dark and
bad right it has to be because it's it's
something that only works in the moment
you have to set it up properly it's very
context dependent and so it's very easy
for someone who wants to Savage
someone's reputation to take a joke out
of context and to use it as a bludgeon
and so it's one of the that's what
happened to me but you know they had
been trying to do that to me since I
first walked into Hollywood because I
thought it was like how dare she who
didn't go to Harvard has no deg
how dare she Reach people right right
right it was so the class issue was
always so hard when you asked me about
Hollywood um it was always
that right right well and you know Trump
trump is faced that too he I mean he's
always been my my impression is that
he's always been an an outsider to the
elites you know and I also think that's
part of the reason that he's attractive
to workingclass people is you know know
it's it's partly because they look at
Trump they look at an Ivy League
educated what do you call them AC acad
demed individual and think well that's
outside of my realm of possibility but
what Trump represents is something that
I could conceivably have so there's an
American Dream variant there and I think
that's realistic and I know Trump is
also good when he's talking to military
people for example and that's a hard
thing that's typically a very hard thing
for politicians to pull off I imagine he
can probably do that because he's had a
fair bit of experience with workingclass
people on the construction side of of
his life which is also a difficult thing
to manage speak from the hip and from
the heart yeah he doesn't filter it
through you know a bunch of hor lies
like they do they don't mean anything
they say and everyone knows it and
everyone got used to oh politicians we
don't believe anything we just you know
we think we we vote for the lesser of
two evils you know the 2% less evil than
the other guy so we'll vote for him we
know they're all lying they're all full
of it but Trump was a shock to the
system of that because he's like we can
do better and we can use you know
everything at our disposal to make
things better and make it better for our
people nobody ever heard anything like
that since Kennedy and it's a shock to
that system of uh you know that big boat
they don't want rocked and of course I
was so excited because I love rocking
that boat you know and uh and it was
very plain spoken it wasn't in that
academic removed uh insulated Ivory
Tower voice that tells us what's good
for us you know it was like you know
what you guys are our
servants
okay yeah you are our public servants
and you're no good at the servant
business that's one of my bits I go you
stuck at the servant business and you
ought to be fired you're like this kind
of servant that comes into work and
steals our
spoons you ought to be in
jail and uh you know it's just a a a
turning they call it the fourth turning
you know what I was going to say is the
most exciting thing for me uh recently
in the last well you know the last few
years maybe 20 off and on but uh I also
um I love to talk about the Bible and um
I sort of I'm a Jew you know so I I sort
of teach Sunday school in a way but uh
how funny the Bible is you know if you
look at it correctly and read it right
it's hilarious like I say God's The
Funniest Comic um
it's just hilarious how God turns things
out but I I like to talk about the humor
in the Torah stories and make them funny
because they are so funny and they are
so give me an example give me an example
well the my favorite example is when we
left Egypt and uh you know the the uh
the uh people who left slavery the um
Israelites there the
tribes they uh they've just they've just
been taken out and uh had the sea open
for them you know they had all these
great Miracles they get to the other
side dry and alive and the first thing
they do is start bitching about right
yeah absolutely complaining and whining
yeah at least in Egypt we had fresh fish
that's hilarious yeah yeah that's for
sure that is hilarious hey they what's
the matter they didn't have graves in
Egypt yeah to bring us out here in the
desert to bury us you know no concept of
gratitude nothing it was all gone after
these major Miracles because that's kind
of the nature of people if they can't
have their complaints and their blaming
that's the nature of slavery I mean yes
that's right leave to leave slavery the
vestage of it was still within the
people's minds that's why it took 40
years to yeah right that's exact they of
that system so I mean it's just it's
just humorous that you know and like the
story of you know there's there's a
scene in there's a scene in Exodus where
the Israelites are complaining about not
having anything to eat and God sends
them so many quail that like there's
three feet of quail everywhere as far as
you can see and they're literally eating
so much Quail that the bones are coming
their
noses right right and there's a scene
too in the story of Adam and Eve when
after Adam and Eve fall and Adam is
hiding behind a bush because he knows
he's naked God comes along and says you
know what the hell are you doing hiding
from me and Adam says well you know that
woman you made me and so it's so great
because he blames
the woman for his trouble and his
nakedness and his cowardice and he
blames God at the same time which is
also a very nice little bit of comedic
twist and those are great comedic
premises you know that God gave us
because we're supposed to see oursel in
them and go hey maybe I can well we're
not supposed to say maybe but we're
supposed to recognize that we need to
change that in ourselves yeah you so men
should stop blaming women and God you
mean
well you you should be accountable for
what you yourself do that's the hardest
thing it's the hardest thing for human
beings to go I have made a mistake that
needs to be corrected and the real hard
thing for human beings just to I've
found in my life is to say I am
sorry hardly anybody can say that the
left never says that when they're proven
wrong over and over and over and they
ruin people with the Jack boot on their
face I say the rainbow colored Jack
boots right right um they never say oh
we're sorry we were wrong they never do
that and uh well you know from Exodus
that it's in the nature of the Tyrant to
double down in the face of error right
right that's how you make sure the
plagues get worse when you could have
just learned the first time oh that's a
great that's a great one y yeah well
there's the other part of that too you
know which which also sh sheds a light
on refusal to admit to error you know
because the Egypt or the Israelites they
escape from The Tyranny but they're not
in the promised land they have to spend
those years in the desert and so lots of
people will stay in the Tyranny because
they don't want to be in the desert
because it's tyranny desert Promised
Land not tyranny promised land so you
know once you give up your idiocy you're
lost for a while and that's painful yeah
yeah yeah it's painful right yeah yeah
process the process of freeing your mind
after you freed your body that's even
harder yeah right right well that's
exact that's exactly what that story
reflects yeah all right ran we should we
should wrap this up we've we've gone
longer than we planned which is exactly
fine as far as I'm concerned for
everybody I very much enjoyed talking
with you too I the next time I come to
Austin maybe we could meet I would like
that maybe we could go to one of the
comedy clubs together inter you too i'
I'd love to take you down there yeah
that would be fun so I'm gonna come to
Austin probably in July I think I'm
going to go see Joe in July that's I'll
be here so you know let's let's do it
absolutely absolutely I'll do I you know
this guy that placed Tyler Fischer I was
going to tell you that placed Konza he
does the best Jordan
Peterson I I have your uh uh text so I'm
going to text it to you he does you on
the money I'm gonna send it to you it's
so brilliant oh that's a terrible thing
to even contemplate so yeah I'm looking
forward to that all right so let's let's
let's get together when when I come down
to Austin I think that would be fun all
right all right and for everybody
watching and listening I'm going to
continue to interview Rosanne on The
Daily wire side for another half an hour
I think we'll probably talk a little bit
more about cancellation and okay yeah I
think I think we should delve into that
and into into the how you've coped with
that and and and what you plan to do
about it in the future and what people
should be done when do when they find
themselves in that situation and what
you've done so that's what we're if you
guys want to come over onto the daily
wire side everybody watching and
listening I think that's where we're
going to go with that and so thank you
very much for talking with me today it
was a pleasure
walking through your thoughts on comedy
with you for sure and uh I'm looking
forward to meeting in
person me
too all right and everybody watching and
listening thank you very much for that
and uh your attention is much
appreciated the film crew here up in
Fairview Alberta um thank you for making
that possible and uh we'll talk soon
[Music]